[2.9] Update DAGs guide (#3519)
astronomer/docs: learn/dags.md

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import example_astronauts_three_tasks from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/dags/example_astronauts_three_tasks.py';
import complex_dag_structure from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/dags/complex_dag_structure.py';

A **DAG** is a **directed acyclic graph**, a mathematical structure consisting of nodes and edges. In Airflow, a DAG represents the unit of one data pipeline or workflow.

> Within an Airflow DAG, each node represents a task or task group, and each edge represents a dependency between tasks or task groups. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within an Airflow DAG, each node represents a task and each edge represents a dependency between tasks. 
```
I know technically a node could be a task group, but want to keep this super simple up front because it could easily be the first guide somebody reads. Also, while you can take some actions on the entire task group, I still think realistically they're more like a collection of nodes than they are a node themselves.

> DAGs are defined in Python code and visualized in the Airflow UI. They can be as simple as a single task or as complex as containing hundreds of tasks, task groups, and complicated dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DAGs are defined in Python code and visualized in the Airflow UI. They can be as simple as a single task or as complex as hundreds or thousands of tasks with complicated dependencies.
```

- `failed`: All task instances are in a terminal state and at least one leaf task is in the state `failed` or `upstream_failed`.

### Example complex DAG run

Once you start writing more complex DAGs, you will see additional elements of different Airflow features that are visualized in the DAG run graph. The following screenshot shows the same complex DAG as in the first section but with annotations explaining the different elements of the graph. Don't worry if you don't know about all these features yet, you will learn about them as you become more familiar with Airflow.

![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the Grid view with the Graph tab selected. A DAG run of a complex DAG is shown with annotations showing a dynamically mapped task, a branching task, an edge label, a dynamically mapped task group, regular task groups, setup/ teardown tasks as well as a Dataset.](/img/guides/dags_complex_DAG_annotated.png)

<details>

> <summary>Click to view the full DAG code used for the Screenshot</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<summary>Click to view the full DAG code used for the screenshot</summary>
```

<div>
    <div>
    The following code creates the same DAG structure as shown in the previous screenshot. Note that custom operators have been replaced with the BashOperator and EmptyOperator to make it possible to run the DAG without additional setup.
    <CodeBlock language="python">{complex_dag_structure}</CodeBlock>
    </div>
</div>
</details>

> - **Dynamically mapped task**: A task that is [dynamically created](dynamic-tasks.md) at runtime based on changing user defined input. The number of task instances is shown in `[]` behind the task id. Task groups can also be [dynamically mapped](task-groups#generate-task-groups-dynamically-at-runtime).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Dynamically mapped tasks**: A dynamically mapped task is [created dynamically](dynamic-tasks.md) at runtime based on user-defined input. The number of dynamically mapped task instances is shown in brackets (`[]`) behind the task ID.
```

> - **Branching task**: A task that creates a conditional branch in the DAG. See [Branching in Airflow](airflow-branch-operator.md) for more information.
> - **Edge label**: A label on the edge between two tasks. These labels are often helpful to annotate branch decisions in a DAG graph. 
> - **Task group**: A task group is a tool to logically and visually group tasks in an Airflow DAG. See [Airflow task groups](task-groups.md) for more information.
> - **Setup/teardown tasks**: When using Airflow to manage infrastructure it can be helpful to define tasks as setup and teardown tasks to take advantage of additional intelligent dependency behavior. You can recognize setup and teardown tasks by little arrows next to the task id in the task node and the dotted line connecting them. See [Use setup and teardown tasks in Airflow](airflow-setup-teardown.md) for more information.
> - **Dataset**: Datasets are shown in the DAG graph. If a DAG is scheduled on a dataset, it is shown upstream of the first task of the DAG. If a task in the DAG updates a dataset, it is shown after the respective task as in the previous screenshot. See [Airflow datasets](airflow-datasets.md) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Branching tasks**: A branching task creates a conditional branch in the DAG. See [Branching in Airflow](airflow-branch-operator.md) for more information.
- **Edge labels**: Edge labels appear on the edge between two tasks. These labels are often helpful to annotate branch decisions in a DAG graph. 
- **Task groups**: A task group is a tool to logically and visually group tasks in an Airflow DAG. See [Airflow task groups](task-groups.md) for more information.
- **Setup/teardown tasks**: When using Airflow to manage infrastructure, it can be helpful to define tasks as setup and teardown tasks to take advantage of additional intelligent dependency behavior. Setup and teardown tasks appear with diagonal arrows next to their task IDs and are connected with a dotted line. See [Use setup and teardown tasks in Airflow](airflow-setup-teardown.md) for more information.
- **Datasets**: Datasets are shown in the DAG graph. If a DAG is scheduled on a dataset, it is shown upstream of the first task of the DAG. If a task in the DAG updates a dataset, it is shown after the respective task as in the previous screenshot. See [Airflow datasets](airflow-datasets.md) for more information.
```

You can learn more about how to set complex dependencies between tasks and task groups in the [Managing Dependencies](managing-dependencies.md) guide.

## Write a DAG

> DAGs in Airflow are defined in a Python script that is placed in an Airflow project's `DAG_FOLDER`, which is `dags/` when using the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli). Airflow automatically parses all files in this folder to load any new DAGs every 5 minutes and update any existing DAGs every 30 seconds. You can force a new parsing of the DAGs by running `astro dev run dags reserialize` ([`airflow dags reserialize`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#reserialize)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A DAG can be defined with a Python file placed in an Airflow project's `DAG_FOLDER`, which is `dags` when using the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli). Airflow automatically parses all files in this folder every 5 minutes to check for new DAGs, and it parses existing DAGs for code changes every 30 seconds. You can force a new DAG parse using [`airflow dags reserialize`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#reserialize), or `astro dev run dags reserialize` using the Astro CLI.
```

> There are two main ways to define a DAG:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two types of syntax you can use to structure your DAG:
```

- **TaskFlow API**: The TaskFlow API contains the `@dag` decorator. A function decorated with `@dag` defines a DAG. Note that you need to call the function at the end of the script for Airflow to register the DAG. All tasks are defined within the context of the DAG function.
- **Traditional syntax**: You can create a DAG by instantiating a DAG context using the `DAG` class and defining tasks within that context.

> TaskFlow API and traditional syntax can be freely mixed, see [Mixing TaskFlow decorators with traditional operators](airflow-decorators.md#mixing-taskflow-decorators-with-traditional-operators) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TaskFlow API and traditional syntax can be freely mixed. See [Mixing TaskFlow decorators with traditional operators](airflow-decorators.md#mixing-taskflow-decorators-with-traditional-operators) for more information. 

The following is an example of the same DAG written using each type of syntax.
```

The mathematical properties of DAGs make them useful for building data pipelines:

- **Directed**: There is a clear direction of flow between tasks. A task can be either upstream, downstream, or parallel to another task.

    ![Visualization of two graphs with 3 nodes each. The first graph is directed, the arrow in between the nodes always points into one direction. The second graph is not directed, the arrow between the second and third node points in both directions. Only the first graph would be possible to define in Airflow.](/img/guides/dags_directed_vs_not_directed.png)

- **Acyclic**: There are no circular dependencies in a DAG. This means that a task cannot depend on itself, nor can it depend on a task that ultimately depends on it.

    ![Visualization of two graphs with 4 nodes each. The first graph is acyclic, there are no circles defined between the nodes. In the second graph a dependency is added between task 4 and task 1, meaning task 1 depends on task 4. This creates a circle because task 4 is downstream of task 1. Only the first graph would be possible to define in Airflow.](/img/guides/dags_acyclic_vs_cyclic.png)

> - **Graph**: A DAG is a graph, which is a structure consisting of nodes and edges. In Airflow, nodes are tasks and edges are dependencies between tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Graph**: A DAG is a graph, which is a structure consisting of nodes and edges. In Airflow, nodes are tasks and edges are dependencies between tasks. Defining workflows as graphs helps you visualize the entire workflow in a way that's easy to navigate and conceptualize.
```

> After a DAG meets these requirements, it can be as simple or as complicated as you need! You can define tasks that run in parallel or sequentially, implement conditional branches, and visually group tasks together in [task groups](task-groups.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beyond these requirements, a DAG can be as simple or as complicated as you need! You can define tasks that run in parallel or sequentially, implement conditional branches, and visually group tasks together in [task groups](task-groups.md).
```

## What is a DAG?

> In Airflow, a DAG is a data pipeline or workflow defined in Python code. DAGs are the main organizational unit in Airflow. They contain a collection of tasks with defined dependencies between them that you want to execute on a schedule. Each DAG has a unique `dag_id`.

Reviewer: I would actually take the first part of this "In Airflow, a DAG is a data pipeline or workflow defined in Python code. DAGs are the main organizational unit in Airflow. They contain a collection of tasks with defined dependencies between them that you want to execute on a schedule." and make it the intro paragraph. And put the intro first paragraph here. Definitely important to cover the mathematical structure and how it maps to tasks/dependencies, but I think these two sentences are more approachable (and more the practical definition), and should come first.

The mathematical properties of DAGs make them useful for building data pipelines:

> - **Directed**: There is a clear direction of flow between tasks. A task can either be upstream, downstream or parallel to another task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Directed**: There is a clear direction of flow between tasks. A task can either be upstream, downstream, or parallel to another task.
```

    ![Visualization of two graphs with 3 nodes each. The first graph is directed, the arrow in between the nodes always points into one direction. The second graph is not directed, the arrow between the second and third node points in both directions. Only the first graph would be possible to define in Airflow.](/img/guides/dags_directed_vs_not_directed.png)

- **Acyclic**: There cannot be any circular dependencies in your DAG. This means that a task cannot depend on itself, nor can it depend on a task that ultimately depends on it.

    ![Visualization of two graphs with 4 nodes each. The first graph is acyclic, there are no circles defined between the nodes. In the second graph a dependency is added between task 4 and task 1, meaning task 1 depends on task 4. This creates a circle because task 4 is downstream of task 1. Only the first graph would be possible to define in Airflow.](/img/guides/dags_acyclic_vs_cyclic.png)

> Aside from these requirements, DAGs in Airflow can be as complicated as you need! You can define tasks running in parallel, sequentially, conditional branches and visually group tasks together in [task groups](task-groups.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from these requirements, DAGs in Airflow can be as complicated as you need! You can define tasks that will run in parallel or sequentially, implement conditional branches, and visually group tasks together in [task groups](task-groups.md).
```

> Each task in a DAG is one unit of work performed. Tasks can be anything from a simple Python function to a complex data transformation or a call to an external service. They are defined using [Airflow operators](what-is-an-operator.md) or [Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md). The dependencies between tasks can be set in different ways, see [Managing Dependencies](managing-dependencies.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each task in a DAG performs one unit of work. Tasks can be anything from a simple Python function to a complex data transformation or a call to an external service. They are defined using [Airflow operators](what-is-an-operator.md) or [Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md). The dependencies between tasks can be set in different ways, see [Managing Dependencies](managing-dependencies.md).
```

<details>
<summary>Click to view the full DAG code used to create the DAG in the screenshot</summary>
<div>
    <div><CodeBlock language="python">{example_astronauts_three_tasks}</CodeBlock></div>
</div>
</details>

## What is a DAG run?

An instance of a DAG running at a specific point in time is called a **DAG run**. Each DAG run has a unique `dag_run_id`. The history of previous DAG runs is stored in the [Airflow metadata database](airflow-database.md).

In the Airflow UI you can view previous runs of a DAG in the Grid view and select individual DAG runs by clicking on the respective duration bar. The DAG run graph looks similar to the DAG graph with additional information about the status of each task instance in the DAG run.

![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the Grid view with the Graph tab selected. A simple DAG run is shown with 3 successful sequential tasks, get_astronauts, print_astronaut_craft (which is a dynamically mapped task with 7 mapped task instances) and print_reaction.](/img/guides/dags_simple_dag_run_graph.png)

> ### Read a DAG run graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DAG run properties
```
Another one where I might need to contemplate the best section naming (and am open to other suggestions!). I don't love "DAG run graph" because if somebody said that to me I'm not sure I would immediately understand what it was, and in the end all of the things described are not inherently part of the graph, they're just displayed there.

> A DAG run graph in the Airflow UI contains information about the DAG run, as well as the status of each task instance in the DAG run. The following screenshot shows the same simple DAG as in the previous section but with annotations explaining the different elements of the graph.

Reviewer: Probably should define task instance up above as well

![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the Grid view with the Graph tab selected. A DAG run with 3 tasks is shown. The annotations show the location of the dag_id and logical date (top of the screenshot), the task_id, task state and operator/decorator used in the nodes of the graph, as well as the number of dynamically mapped task instances in [] behind the task id and the DAG dependency layout to the right of the screen.](/img/guides/dags_simple_dag_run_graph_annotated.png)

- `dag_id`: The unique identifier of the DAG.

> - `logical date`: The point in time for which the DAG run is scheduled. This date and time is not necessarily the same as the actual moment the DAG run is executed, see [Scheduling](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logical date`: The point in time for which the DAG run is scheduled. This date and time is not necessarily the same as the actual moment the DAG run is executed. See [Scheduling](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information.
```

- `task_id`: The unique identifier of the task.
- `task state`: The status of the task instance in the DAG run. Possible states are `running`, `success`, `failed`, `skipped`, `restarting`, `up_for_retry`, `upstream_failed`, `queued`, `scheduled`, `none`, `removed`, `deferred`, and `up_for_reschedule`, they each cause the border of the node to be colored differently. See the OSS documentation on [task instances](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/tasks.html#task-instances) for an explanation of each state.

> - DAG dependency layout: The layout of the tasks in the DAG run graph. This tells you in what direction to read the DAG run graph. You can change the layout in the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is nitpicky, but since there's a lot going on in the screenshot, I would remove this one. It's pretty self explanatory, and I don't think something people change all that often.

> The previous screenshot shows 4 successful DAG runs, one for each DAG run type:

Reviewer: If we remove the dependency layout from the screenshot you may be able to zoom in a little more. Right now at least on my screen I can't see the DAG run type indicators in the grid at all beyond little blobs.

> - **backfill**: The first DAG run shown was created by a [backfill](rerunning-dags.md#backfill). You can see a little circle arrow on the DAG run bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **backfill**: The first DAG run shown was created by a [backfill](rerunning-dags.md#backfill). You can see a circled arrow on the DAG run bar.
```
Double check me on this - it is a circle wiht an arrow in it, right?

- **scheduled**: The second DAG run was created by the Airflow scheduler based on the DAG's defined schedule. This DAG run bar has no additional icon and is the DAG run selected in the screenshot.

> - **manual**: The third DAG run was started manually by a user in the Airflow UI or using the Airflow CLI. You can see a little play icon on the DAG run bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **manual**: The third DAG run was started manually by a user in the Airflow UI or using the Airflow CLI. You can see a play icon on the DAG run bar.
```

> - **dataset_triggered**: The fourth DAG run was started by a [dataset](airflow-datasets.md). You can see a little dataset icon on the DAG run bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dataset_triggered**: The fourth DAG run was started by a [dataset](airflow-datasets.md). You can see a dataset icon on the DAG run bar.
```

> ### Understand a complex DAG run graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example complex DAG run
```

Once you start writing more complex DAGs, you will see additional elements of different Airflow features that are visualized in the DAG run graph. The following screenshot shows the same complex DAG as in the first section but with annotations explaining the different elements of the graph. Don't worry if you don't know about all these features yet, you will learn about them as you become more familiar with Airflow.

![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the Grid view with the Graph tab selected. A DAG run of a complex DAG is shown with annotations showing a dynamically mapped task, a branching task, an edge label, a dynamically mapped task group, regular task groups, setup/ teardown tasks as well as a Dataset.](/img/guides/dags_complex_DAG_annotated.png)

> - **Dynamically mapped task**: A task that is [dynamically created](dynamic-tasks.md) at runtime based on changing user defined input. The number of task instances is shown in `[]` behind the task id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dynamically mapped task**: A task that is [dynamically created](dynamic-tasks.md) at runtime based on changing user defined input. The number of task instances is shown in `[]` behind the task id. Task groups can also be dynamically mapped.
```

- **Branching task**: A task that creates a conditional branch in the DAG. See [Branching in Airflow](airflow-branch-operator.md) for more information.
- **Edge label**: A label on the edge between two tasks. These labels are often helpful to annotate branch decisions in a DAG graph. 

> - **Regular task group**: A task group is a tool to logically and visually group tasks in an Airflow DAG. See [Airflow task groups](task-groups.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Task group**: A task group is a tool to logically and visually group tasks in an Airflow DAG. See [Airflow task groups](task-groups.md) for more information.
```

> - **Dynamically mapped task group**: A task group can be dynamically mapped like an individual task. The number of mapped task group instances is shown in `[]` behind the task group id. See [Mapping over task groups](dynamic-tasks.md#mapping-over-task-groups) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
To keep this a bit simpler, let's remove this bullet and the notation in the screenshot. I added a suggested note in the dynamic tasks bullet that you can also map a task group. Mostly I think "regular task groups" could be confusing

- **Setup/teardown tasks**: When using Airflow to manage infrastructure it can be helpful to define tasks as setup and teardown tasks to take advantage of additional intelligent dependency behavior. You can recognize setup and teardown tasks by little arrows next to the task id in the task node and the dotted line connecting them. See [Use setup and teardown tasks in Airflow](airflow-setup-teardown.md) for more information.

> - **Dataset**: As of Airflow 2.9, datasets are shown in the DAG graph. If a DAG is scheduled on a dataset it will be shown upstream of the first task of the DAG, if a task in the DAG updates a dataset it is shown after the respective task as in the previous screenshot. See [Airflow datasets](airflow-datasets.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dataset**: Datasets are shown in the DAG graph. If a DAG is scheduled on a dataset, it will be shown upstream of the first task of the DAG. If a task in the DAG updates a dataset, it is shown after the respective task as in the previous screenshot. See [Airflow datasets](airflow-datasets.md) for more information.
```
I know this will be pretty new for a while, but saving us the effort of removing it later. It doesn't change how you write a DAG, so I think it's okay to leave out the version.

You can learn more about how to set complex dependencies between tasks and task groups in the [Managing Dependencies](managing-dependencies.md) guide.

<details>
<summary>Click to view the full DAG code used for the Screenshot</summary>
<div>
    <div>
    The following code creates the same DAG structure as shown in the previous screenshot. Note that custom operators have been replaced with the BashOperator and EmptyOperator to make it possible to run the DAG without additional setup.
    <CodeBlock language="python">{complex_dag_structure}</CodeBlock>
    </div>
</div>
</details>

> ### DAG run status

Reviewer: Let's put this under the higher level section "what is a DAG run" under the screenshot, not in a separate subsection.

| `start_date` | The date and time after which the DAG starts being scheduled. Note that the first actual run of the DAG may be later than this date depending on how you define the schedule. See [DAG scheduling and timetables in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information. This parameter may be required depending on your Airflow version and `schedule`. |
| `schedule`   | The schedule for the DAG. There are many different ways to define a schedule, see [Scheduling in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information. Defaults to `timedelta(days=1)`. This parameter replaces the deprecated `schedule_interval` and `timetable` parameters. |
| `catchup`    | Whether the scheduler should backfill all missed DAG runs between the current date and the start date when the DAG is unpaused. This parameter defaults to `True`. It is a best practice to always set it to `False` unless you specifically want to backfill missed DAG runs, see [Catchup](rerunning-dags.md#catchup) for more information. |

> Some parameters relate to adding information to the DAG or change its appearance in the **Airflow UI**:

Reviewer 2: This is a looot of info to include at the end of the guide, and reference some terms that have yet to be introduced in the guide, such as jinja. Could we save this for a separate guide so that we only cover the "core" parameters for this introductory guide?

<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
# Import all packages needed at the top level of the DAG
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
from pendulum import datetime

def my_task_1_func():
    import time  # import packages only needed in the task function

    time.sleep(5)
    print(1)

# Instantiate the DAG
with DAG(
    dag_id="traditional_syntax_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2024, 1, 1),
    schedule="@daily",
    catchup=False,
):
    # Instantiate tasks within the DAG context
    my_task_1 = PythonOperator(
        task_id="my_task_1",
        python_callable=my_task_1_func,
    )

    my_task_2 = PythonOperator(
        task_id="my_task_2",
        python_callable=lambda: print(2),
    )

    # Define dependencies
    my_task_1 >> my_task_2
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip

> Astronomer recommends creating one Python file for each DAG and naming it after the `dag_id` as a best practice for organizing your Airflow project. At scale it is common to dynamically generate DAGs using Python code, see [Dynamically generate DAGs in Airflow](dynamically-generating-dags.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends creating one Python file for each DAG and naming it after the `dag_id` as a best practice for organizing your Airflow project. For certain advanced use cases it may be appropriate to dynamically generate DAGs using Python code, see [Dynamically generate DAGs in Airflow](dynamically-generating-dags.md) for more information.
```

Reviewer: I'm a little on the fence of whether to leave the comment on dynamically generating DAGs in at all, mostly because I don't want to direct people to that from an intro-level guide, and would much rather have people use dynamic task mapping. I think the counter argument is that people do sometimes need to do this, and might be looking for it early on in their Airflow journey. Wdyt? I could be swayed either way.

:::

### DAG-level parameters

> In Airflow, you can configure when and how your DAG runs by setting parameters in the DAG object. DAG-level parameters affect how the entire DAG behaves, as opposed to task-level parameters which only affect a single task. The DAGs in the previous section have the following parameters defined:

Reviewer: I think it would be worth actually stating up front here that this section has _all_ the DAG-level parameters you can define, since the lack of that consolidated info anywhere else is the reason we're keeping this long section.

> - `dag_id`: The name of the DAG. This must be unique for each DAG in the Airflow environment. When using the `@dag` decorator and not providing the `dag_id` parameter name, the function name is used as the `dag_id`. When using the `DAG` class, this parameter is required.

Reviewer: Random thought - but maybe we could have tabs for these sections of different parameters and then it wouldn't be such a wall of text? If you have info in a tab that isn't selected, will it still show up if you search the doc? That would be one reason to potentially not do this if it would mess up searching.

- `access_control`: Specify optional permissions for roles specific to an individual DAG. See [DAG-level permissions](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/access-control.html#dag-level-permissions). This cannot be implemented on Astro. Astronomer recommends customers to use [Astro's RBAC features](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/user-permissions) instead.
- `is_paused_upon_creation`: Whether the DAG is paused when it is created. When not set, the Airflow config `core.dags_are_paused_at_creation` is used, which defaults to `True`.
- `fail_stop`: In Airflow 2.7+ you can set this parameter to `True` to stop DAG execution as soon as one task in this DAG fails. Any tasks that are still running are marked as `failed` and any tasks that have not run yet are marked as `skipped`. Note that you cannot have any [trigger rule](managing-dependencies.md#trigger-rules) other than `all_success` in a DAG with `fail_stop` set to `True`.

Additionally you can set DAG-level callbacks in the DAG definition, see [DAG-level callbacks](error-notifications-in-airflow.md#airflow-callbacks) for more information.

> ## See also 

Reviewer: Maybe also include an intro webinar in here? So tutorial, webinar, or guides on operators/decorators seem like a good list of next steps that isn't overwhelming.

- [Get started with Apache Airflow](get-started-with-airflow.md) tutorial for a hands-on introduction to writing your first simple DAG.

> - [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md) for an overview of Airflow concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is in the assumed knowledge section, so it shouldn't be a next step.

    time.sleep(5)
    print(1)

# Instantiate the DAG
with DAG(
    dag_id="traditional_syntax_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2024, 1, 1),
    schedule="@daily",
    catchup=False,
):
    # Instantiate tasks within the DAG context
    my_task_1 = PythonOperator(
        task_id="my_task_1",
        python_callable=my_task_1_func,
    )

    my_task_2 = PythonOperator(
        task_id="my_task_2",
        python_callable=lambda: print(2),
    )

    # Define dependencies
    my_task_1 >> my_task_2
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip

Astronomer recommends creating one Python file for each DAG and naming it after the `dag_id` as a best practice for organizing your Airflow project. For certain advanced use cases it may be appropriate to dynamically generate DAGs using Python code, see [Dynamically generate DAGs in Airflow](dynamically-generating-dags.md) for more information.

:::

### DAG-level parameters

In Airflow, you can configure when and how your DAG runs by setting parameters in the DAG object. DAG-level parameters affect how the entire DAG behaves, as opposed to task-level parameters which only affect a single task.

> The DAGs in the previous section have the following basic parameters defined:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DAGs in the previous section have the following basic parameters defined. It's best practice to always define these parameters for any DAGs you create:
```

- `dag_id`: The name of the DAG. This must be unique for each DAG in the Airflow environment. When using the `@dag` decorator and not providing the `dag_id` parameter name, the function name is used as the `dag_id`.
- `start_date`: The date and time after which the DAG starts being scheduled.
- `schedule`: The schedule for the DAG. There are many different ways to define a schedule, see [Scheduling in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information.
- `catchup`: Whether the scheduler should [backfill all missed DAG runs](rerunning-dags.md#catchup) between the current date and the start date when the DAG is unpaused. It is a best practice to always set it to `False` unless you specifically want to backfill missed DAG runs.

> There are many more DAG-level parameters, see the [DAG-level parameters](airflow-dag-parameters.md) guide for a complete list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many more DAG-level parameters that let you configure anything from resource usage to the DAG's appearance in the Airflow UI. See [DAG-level parameters](airflow-dag-parameters.md) for a complete list.
```

        task_id="my_task_1",
        python_callable=my_task_1_func,
    )

    my_task_2 = PythonOperator(
        task_id="my_task_2",
        python_callable=lambda: print(2),
    )

    # Define dependencies
    my_task_1 >> my_task_2
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip

Astronomer recommends creating one Python file for each DAG and naming it after the `dag_id` as a best practice for organizing your Airflow project. At scale it is common to dynamically generate DAGs using Python code, see [Dynamically generate DAGs in Airflow](dynamically-generating-dags.md) for more information.

:::

### DAG-level parameters

In Airflow, you can configure when and how your DAG runs by setting parameters in the DAG object. DAG-level parameters affect how the entire DAG behaves, as opposed to task-level parameters which only affect a single task. The DAGs in the previous section have the following parameters defined:

- `dag_id`: The name of the DAG. This must be unique for each DAG in the Airflow environment. When using the `@dag` decorator and not providing the `dag_id` parameter name, the function name is used as the `dag_id`. When using the `DAG` class, this parameter is required.

> - `start_date`: The date and time after which the DAG starts being scheduled. None that the first actual run of the DAG may be later than this date depending on how you define the schedule. See [DAG scheduling and timetables in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information. This parameter may be required depending on your Airflow version and `schedule`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `start_date`: The date and time after which the DAG starts being scheduled. Note that the first actual run of the DAG may be later than this date depending on how you define the schedule. See [DAG scheduling and timetables in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md) for more information. This parameter may be required depending on your Airflow version and `schedule`.
```

- `params`: A dictionary of DAG-level Airflow params. See [Airflow params](airflow-params.md) for more information.
- `dagrun_timeout`: The time it takes for a DAG run of this DAG to time out and be marked as `failed`.
- `access_control`: Specify optional permissions for roles specific to an individual DAG. See [DAG-level permissions](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/access-control.html#dag-level-permissions). Astronomer recommends customers to use [Astro's RBAC features](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/user-permissions) instead.
- `is_paused_upon_creation`: Whether the DAG is paused when it is created. When not set, the Airflow config `core.dags_are_paused_at_creation` is used, which defaults to `True`.
- `fail_stop`: In Airflow 2.7+ you can set this parameter to `True` to stop DAG execution as soon as one task in this DAG fails. Any tasks that are still running are marked as `failed` and any tasks that have not run yet are marked as `skipped`. Note that you cannot have any [trigger rule](managing-dependencies.md#trigger-rules) other than `all_success` in a DAG with `fail_stop` set to `True`.

> Additionally you can set DAG-level callbacks in the DAG definition, see [DAG-level callbacks](error-notifications-in-airflow.md#airflow-callbacks) for more information.

Reviewer: I think we need a "see also" section at the end here that links to the resources we recommend next (probably the getting started tutorials)
